# 2024-NFL-Football-Stats

Data Collection: I collected my data from ESPN Sports Center the week of 09/27/2024. This site provided the following statistics of the top 5 teams: total yards, passing, rushing, yards allowed, sacks, and turnovers. The data collected had a total of 6 tables with three columns and 5 rows per table. I web scraped each table from the website using Python. The library that I used to web scrape the data as was Pandas. After webscraping each table, I cleaned the data by deleting extra rows and dropping columns. After cleaning each table, I exported each table as a CSV file and merged the datasets in Microsoft Excel.

Project Summary: Considering that the 2024 NFL Football Season just kicked off, I wanted to create a report that would help fans visualize stats on their favorite team and identify patterns in trends. Since I was younger, football has always been a prominent part of my life, whether it was going to my grandparents’ house every Sunday to watch the football game or getting field access to watch my friend’s dad play. I was born into football. Now that I’m older, I even have friends that play in the NFL. Their profession has helped me learn more about the sport and how important each stat is from turnovers to total yards. 
Because of its popularity, Football is universally recognized across the globe. Thus, it is my hope that dashboard can reach not only those within the United States but also fans in different countries.   

To create my dashboard, I leveraged Tableau and Python. I began identifying stats and trends that are most studied in football. From there, I web scraped and then cleaned the data so that it was in a readable format. Once the data was in a readable format, I discovered that the top 5 teams with the highest passing yards per game are San Francisco 49ers, Dallas Cowboys, Seattle Seahawks, Las Vegas Raiders and Philadelphia Eagles coming in fifth place. The top 5 teams with the highest number of yards per game are the Pittsburgh Steelers, Seattle Seahawks, Denver Broncos, Houston Texans, and Tennessee Titans.  The top 5 teams with the highest rushing yards per game are the Green Bay Packers, Baltimore Ravens, Philadelphia Eagles, Detroit Lions and the Washington Commanders. The top 5 teams with the most turnovers are the Green Bay Packers, the Buffalo Bills, New Orleans Saints, Pittsburgh Steelers, followed by the Los Angeles Chargers in fifth place. The top 5 teams with the most amount of sacks are the Minnesota Vikings, the New York Giants, the New York Jets, the Houston Texans followed by the Buffalo Bills in fifth place. Lastly, the top 5 teams with the highest number of yards allowed per game are the Pittsburgh Steelers, Seattle Seahawks, Denver Broncos, Houston Texans, and Tennessee Titans. These teams were ranked out of the 32 teams in the NFL. To assist with my Tableau reporting, I pulled the population amount, date and the percent of population infected by country. Through my analysis, I found that although teams with a positive turnover differential tend to have a higher percentage, only two teams hold a record of 3-1, the Buffalo Bills and the Pittsburgh Steelers, while the others have only won 2 games. Considering that the season is just getting started, it will be interesting to see how these numbers shift game-after-game. 


